ECMAScript/ES is a language specification created to standardize JavaScript.

ES5, the fifth version of the specification and released in 2009, enabled the language with important and powerful features. It allowed sophisticated UI applications built with JavaScript. ES6 onwards, ECMA script releases have been once a year.

ES6 is also called ES2015. ES7 is ES2016 and ES8 is ES2017.

TC39 proposals and Stage definitions
The Ecma TC39 committee is responsible for evolving ECMAScript. TC39 uses the following stage definitions to move a JavaScript feature to one of the ECMA Script releases.

Features/specifications in stage 4, in time for each year’s release, are included in the release.

ecma-stage-definitions

ECMAScript 2017 (ES8) New Features
Following are the new features in ES8/ES2017.

async/await
Context

JavaScript is asynchronous. Traditionally, callbacks were passed and invoked when an asynchronous operation returned with data. But in this model, callbacks invoked callbacks which invoked more callbacks that created a callback hell scenario.

Promises largely solved this problem with each asynchronous operation/function returning a promise object. A promise could be resolved successfully with data. And in case of a failure, it got rejected with error information.

Following is a Promise constructor introduced in ES6. Before this API was introduced, ES5 used promises from libraries like JQuery, Q etc.

const getData = () => {
    return new Promise( (resolve, reject) => {
        // resolve after 3 second timeout.
        setTimeout(() => resolve({ key: new Date().getTime()}), 3000 );
    });
}
