https://mbed-tls.readthedocs.io/en/latest/kb/cryptography/asn1-key-structures-in-der-and-pem/

ASN.1 key structures in DER and PEM
Introduction
PEM and the ASN.1 structures that are used in saving cryptographic keys and certificates in a portable format are very popular, yet they have not been documented extensively. It is important to understand the structure inside each DER or PEM formatted file, yet this can be challenging to find. Below, we provide this information.

ASN.1 and DER encoding
The RSA, PKCS#1, SSL and TLS communities use the Distinguished Encoding Rules (DER) encoding of ASN.1 to represent keys and certificates in a portable format. The certificate and key information is stored in the binary DER for ASN.1, and applications providing RSA, SSL and TLS should use DER encoding to parse the data. While ASN.1 is a complex representation format and can be difficult to understand, it also has its merits.

PEM files
Because DER encoding results in a truly binary representation of the encoded data, the PEM format was devised for sending these in an encoding of printable characters, so that they can be mailed. We focus on the PEM format below.

Most PEM formatted files encountered when exporting an RSA private or public key, or X509 certificates, are generated by OpenSSL. PEM files are essentially base64 encoded versions of the DER encoded data. A header and footer around the data designate what kind of data is inside the DER encoded string. An example of a PEM encoded file is:

