https://phoenixnap.com/kb/x64-vs-x86#:~:text=A%2032%2Dbit%20processor%20on,memory%20a%20computer%20can%20utilize.

 A 32-bit processor on x86 architecture has 32-bit registers, while 64-bit processors have 64-bit registers. Thus, x64 allows the CPU to store more data and access it faster. The register width also determines the amount of memory a computer can utilize.

The following table shows an overview of the key differences between the x86 and x64 architecture sets:

ISA	x86	x64
Initial release	Introduced in 1978.	Introduced in 2000.
Creator	Intel	AMD
Origin	Based on the Intel 8086 processor.	Created as an extension of the x86 architecture.
Bit amount	32-bit architecture.	64-bit architecture.
Addressable space	4 GB.	16 EB.
RAM limit	4 GB (actual usable RAM 3.2 GB).	16 billion GB.
Speed	Slower and less powerful compared to x64.	Allows high-speed processing of large sets of integers; inherently faster than x86.
Data transmission	Supports parallel transmits of only 32-bits via a 32-bit bus in a single go.	Supports parallel transmits of larger chunks of data via the 64-bit data bus.
Storage	Utilizes more registers to split and store data.	Stores large data amounts with fewer registers.
Application support	No support for 64-bit apps and programs.	Supports both 64-bit and 32-bit apps and programs.
OS support	Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, Linux.	Windows XP Professional, Windows Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10, Linux, Mac OS.
Features
Each architecture set has features that define it and give it an edge in specific use cases. The following lists showcase the features of x64 and x86:

x86

It uses complex instruction set computing architecture (CISC).
Complex instructions require multiple cycles to execute.
x86 has more registers available but less memory.
Designed with fewer pipelines, but it can handle complex addresses.
System performance is optimized using the hardware approach - x86 relies on physical components to compensate for low memory.
Uses software-based DEP (Data Execution Prevention).
x64

Has 64-bit integer capability with backward compatibility for 32-bit applications.
The (theoretical) virtual address space amounts to 2^64 bytes (16 exabytes). However, only a small portion of the theoretical 16-exabyte range is currently used in real life - about 128 TB.
x64 processes large files by mapping the entire file into the process's address space.
Faster than x86 due to its faster parallel processing, 64-bit memory and data bus, and larger registers.
Supports simultaneous operation of large files on multiple address spaces. Additionally, x64 emulates two x86 tasks simultaneously and provides a faster experience than x86.
Loads instructions more effectively and efficiently.
Uses hardware-backed DEP (Data Execution Prevention).
Applications
Due to their different features and differences in resource access, speed, and processing power, each architecture set is used for different purposes:

x86

Many of the world's PCs are still based on x86 operating systems and CPUs.
Used for gaming consoles.
Cloud computing segments still use the x86 architecture.
Older applications and programs usually run on 32-bit architecture.
It is better for emulation.
32-bit is still preferred in audio production due to its compatibility with older audio equipment.
x64

An increasing number of PCs use 64-bit CPUs and operating systems based on the x64 architecture.
All modern mobile processors use the x64 architecture.
It is used to power supercomputers.
Used in video-game consoles.
Virtualization technologies are based on the x64 architecture.
It is better suitable for newer game engines as it is faster and provides better performance.
Limitations
While both ISAs have limitations, x64 is a newer, more perfected type of architecture. Below is a list of limitations of both types of architectures:

x86

It has a limited pool of addressable memory.
The processing speeds are lower compared to x64.
Vendors no longer develop applications for 32-bit operating systems.
Modern CPUs require a 64-bit OS.
All devices on the system (video cards, BIOS, etc.) share the available RAM, leaving even less memory for the OS and applications.
x64

It doesn't natively run on older, legacy devices.
Its high performance and speed usually consume more power.
64-bit drivers are unlikely to become available for older systems and hardware.
Some 32-bit software isn't fully compatible with 64-bit architecture.
How to Check if Your Computer is x64 or x86?
If you own a PC purchased in the last 10-15 years, it likely runs on x64 architecture. Follow the steps below to check if your PC is 32-bit or 64-bit: