
If you are using Windows, you may need to enable hardware virtualization (VT-x). It can usually be enabled via your BIOS. If you are using Hyper-V on a UEFI system you may additionally need to disable Hyper-V in order to access VT-x.

What is hardware virtualization?
Hardware virtualization is the method used to create virtual versions of physical desktops and operating systems. It uses a virtual machine manager (VMM) called a hypervisor to provide abstracted hardware to multiple guest operating systems, which can then share the physical hardware resources more efficiently. Hardware virtualization offers many benefits, such as better performance and lower costs.

How does hardware virtualization work?
Hardware virtualization enables a single physical machine to function as multiple machines by creating simulated environments. The physical host uses software called a hypervisor that creates an abstraction layer between the software and hardware and manages the shared physical hardware resources between the guest and host operating systems. The hypervisor connects directly to the hardware and enables it to be split into multiple distinct environments or virtual machines. These VMs use the resources of the physical host, including CPU, memory, and storage, which are allocated to the guests as needed. When done for server platforms, hardware virtualization is called server virtualization. Hardware virtualization makes it possible to use a physical machine’s full capacity and, by isolating VMs from one another, to protect against malware.
Full virtualization
In full virtualization, the hardware architecture is completely simulated, enabling an unmodified guest operating system to be run in isolation. Data is abstracted from the underlying hardware by the virtualization layer, isolating service requests from the physical hardware that facilitates them. In this scenario, the guest operating system is unaware that it is in a virtualized environment, and therefore hardware is virtualized by the host operating system so that the guest can issue commands to what it thinks is actual hardware. However, these are just simulated hardware devices created by the host, and the hypervisor translates all OS calls. This type of virtualization isolates VMs from the host OS and one another, enabling total portability of VMs between hosts regardless of underlying hardware.  

Paravirtualization
In paravirtualization, the source code of an operating system is modified to run on top of a virtual machine monitor. This OS modification is required for the guest OS to communicate through calls to the API provided by the hypervisor (known as hypercalls). In this scenario, the guest OS is aware that it is a guest OS in a virtual machine environment and receives information on the other operating systems on the same physical hardware, enabling them to share resources rather than emulate an entire hardware environment. In paravirtualization, the guest OS communicates directly to the hypervisor, improving performance and efficiency.   

Intel Virtualization Technology or VT-X. 