<https://www.developer.com/languages/os-signals-go/#:~:text=What%20are%20Signals%20in%20Go,%2C%20we%20press%20CTRL%2BC>.

What are Signals in Go and Golang?
Signals are events generated by UNIX or Linux based operating systems. The system takes some action based upon the signal generated. For example, if we want to cancel a running program, we press CTRL+C. This sends a signal called SIGINT to a program and the underlying system takes appropriate action based upon the signal generated. Understand that the SIGINT is a name associated with a number that designates a particular signal.

Signals are actually software interrupts that can be generated programmatically. They offer a way to handle asynchronous events. Typically, signals are generated by their names, rather than their numbers, to be safe. Understand that most signals and their specific actions are defined by the operating system. They also perform their functions under the purview of the operating system. Therefore, being able to handle some events does not give a limited user a free run to do anything with the system; there are signals that, even if generated, are ignored by the operating system. It is up to the operating system to decide which signals are allowed to be handled by a program.

For example, the SIGKILL and SIGSTOP signals can neither be caught, blocked, or ignored because these signals are critical in maintaining the “sanity” of the operating system functionality. They provide the kernel and root user a way to stop a process under extreme conditions. The number associated with SIGKILL is 9.

In Linux there is a utility called kill that sends a SIGTERM signal to terminate a running program. A common way to find the list of all supported signals is by using the following commands in the terminal:

kill -l
HUP INT QUIT ILL TRAP IOT BUS FPE KILL USR1 SEGV USR2 PIPE ALRM TERM STKFLT CHLD CONT STOP TSTP TTIN TTOU URG XCPU XFSZ VTALRM PROF WINCH POLL PWR SYS
